Americans dead. You hear nothing else I say tonight, hear this. Anyone who is responsible for not taking control. In fact, not saying I take no responsibility initially. Anyone is responsible for that many deaths should not remain as president of the United States of America. We’re in a situation where there are a thousand deaths a day now. A thousand deaths a day. And there are over , new cases per day. Compared to what’s going on in Europe as the New England Medical Journal said, they’re starting from a very low rate. We’re starting from a very high rate.
 
The expectation is we’ll have another , Americans dead between now and the end of the year. If we just wore these masks, the president’s own advisors have told him, we can save a , lives. And we’re in a circumstance where the president thus far and still has no plan, no comprehensive plan.
 
What I would do is make sure we have everyone encouraged to wear a mask all the time. I would make sure we move into the direction of rapid testing, investing in rapid testing. I would make sure that we set up national standards as to how to open up schools and open up businesses so they can be safe and give them the wherewithal, the financial resources to be able to do that.
 
We’re in a situation now where the New England Medical Journal, one of the serious, most serious journals in the whole world said for the first time ever that the way this president has responded to this crisis has been absolutely tragic. And so folks, I will take care of this. I will end this. I will make sure we have a plan.
 
Make sure it’s totally transparent. Have the scientists of the world see it, know it, look at it, go through all the processes. And by the way, this is the same fellow who told you, “This is going to end by Easter” last time. This is the same fellow who told you that, “Don’t worry, we’re going to end this by the summer.” We’re about to go into a dark winter, a dark winter and he has no clear plan. And there’s no prospect that there’s going to be a vaccine available for the majority of the American people before the middle of next year.
 
My response is he is xenophobic, but not because he shutdown access from China. And he did it late after  countries had already done that. In addition to that, what he did, he made sure that we had  people that were in there in China trying to get the Wuhan to determine what exactly the source was. What did the president say in January? He said, ” No.” He said, “He’s being transparent. The president of China is being transparent. We owe him a debt of gratitude. We have to thank him.”
 
And then what happened was we started talking about using the Defense Act to make sure we go out and get whatever is needed out there to protect people. And again, I go back to this. He had nothing, he did virtually nothing. And then he gets out of the hospital and he talks about, “Oh, don’t worry. It’s all going to be over soon.” Come on. There’s not another serious scientist in the world who thinks it’s going to be over soon.
 
Can I respond to that?
 
Number one, he says that we’re learning to live with it. People are learning to die with it. You folks home will have an empty chair at the kitchen table this morning. That man or wife going to bed tonight and reaching over to try to touch, there out of habit, where their wife or husband was, is gone. Learning to live with it. Come on. We’re dying with it, because he’s never said. See, you said, “It’s dangerous.” When’s the last time? Is it really dangerous still? Are we dangerous. You tell the people it’s dangerous now. What should they do about the danger? And you say, “I take no responsibility.”
 
The fact is that when we knew it was coming, when it hit, what happened? What did the President say? He said, “Don’t worry. It’s going to go away. It’ll be gone by Easter. Don’t worry. Warm weather. Don’t worry. Maybe inject bleach.” He said he was kidding when he said that, but a lot of people thought it was serious. A whole range of things the President has said, even today, he thinks we are in control. We’re about to lose , more people.
 
I didn’t say either of those things.
 
I talked about his xenophobia in a different context. It wasn’t about closing the border to Chinese coming to the United States.
 
What I would say is, I’m going to shut down the virus, not the country. It’s his ineptitude that caused the country to have to shut down in large part, why businesses have gone under, why schools are closed, why so many people have lost their living, and why they’re concerned. Those other concerns are real. That’s why he should have been, instead of in a sand trap at his golf course, he should have been negotiating with Nancy Pelosi and the rest of the Democrats and Republicans about what to do about the acts they were passing for billions of dollars to make sure people had the capacity.
 
Oh, well, no. I’m not shutting down today, but there are … Look, you need standards. The standard is, if you have a reproduction rate in a community that’s above a certain level, everybody says, “Slow up. More social distancing. Do not open bars and do not open gymnasiums. Do not open until you get this under control, under more control.” But when you do open, give the people the capacity to be able to open and have the capacity to do it safely. For example, schools. Schools, they need a lot of money to be open. They need to deal with ventilation systems. They need to deal with smaller classes, more teachers, more pods, and he’s refused to support that money, or at least up to now.
 
Simply not true. We ought to be able to walk and chew gum at the same time. We ought to be able to safely open, but they need resources to open? You need to be able to, for example, if you’re going to open a business, have social distancing within the business. You need to have, if you have a restaurant, you need to have plexiglass dividers so people cannot infect one another. You need to be in a position where you can take testing rapidly and know whether the person is in fact infected. You need to be able to trace. You need to be able to provide all the resources that are needed to do this. And that is not inconsistent with saying that we’re going to make sure that we’re going to open safely. And by the way, all you teachers out there, not that many of you are going to die, so don’t worry about it. So don’t worry about it. Come on.
 
Take a look at what New York has done in terms of turning the curve down, in terms of the number of people dying. And I don’t look at this in terms of the way he does, blue states and red states. They’re all the United States. And look at the states that are having such a spike in the coronavirus. They’re the red states, they’re the states in the Midwest, they’re the states in the upper Midwest. That’s where the spike is occurring significantly. But they’re all Americans. They’re all Americans. And what we have to do is say, wear these masks, number one. Make sure we get the help that the businesses need. That money’s already been passed to do that. It’s been out there since the beginning of the summer, and nothing’s happened.
 
My response is that think about what the President knew in January and didn’t tell the American people. He was told this was a serious virus that spread in the air, and it was much worse, much worse, than the flu. He went on record and said to one of your colleagues, recorded, that in fact he knew how dangerous it was but he didn’t want to tell us. He didn’t want to tell us because he didn’t want us to panic. He didn’t want us… Americans don’t panic. He panicked. But guess what, in the meantime, we find out in the New York Times the other day, that in fact his folks went to Wall Street and said, “This is a really dangerous thing.” And a memo out of that meeting — not from his administration, but from some of the brokers — said, “Sell short, because we’ve got to get moving. It’s a dangerous problem.”
 
I haven’t-
 
Average contribution, $.
 
I made it clear and I asked everyone else to take the pledge. I made it clear that any country, no matter who it is, that interferes in American elections will pay a price. They will pay a price. And it’s been overwhelmingly clear this election — I won’t even get into the last one — this election, that Russia has been involved, China’s been involved to some degree, and now we learn that Iran is involved. They will pay a price if I’m elected. They’re interfering with American sovereignty. That’s what’s going on right now. They’re interfering with American sovereignty.
 
And to the best of my knowledge, I don’t think the President has said anything to Putin about it. I don’t think he’s talking to them a lot. I don’t think he’s said a word. I don’t know why he hasn’t said a word to Putin about it, and I don’t know what he has recently said, if anything, to the Iranians. My guess is he’d probably be more outspoken with regard to the Iranians.
 
But the point is this, folks. We are in a situation where we have foreign countries trying to interfere in the outcome of our election. His own National Security Advisor told him that what is happening with his buddy… Well, I shouldn’t… Well, I will. His buddy Rudy Giuliani. He’s being used as a Russian pawn. He’s being fed information that is Russian that is not true. And then what happens? Nothing happens. And then you find out that everything that’s going on here, about Russia is wanting to make sure that I do not get elected the next President of the United States, because they know I know them, and they know me.
 
I don’t understand why this President is unwilling to take on Putin when he’s actually paying bounties to kill American soldiers in Afghanistan, when he’s engaged in activities that are trying to destabilize all of NATO. I don’t know why he doesn’t do it, but it’s worth asking the question. Why isn’t that being done? Any country that interferes with us will, in fact, pay a price, because they’re affecting our sovereignty.
 
I have not taken a penny from any foreign source ever in my life. We learned that this president paid  times the tax in China as a secret bank account with China, does business in China, and in fact, is talking about me taking money? I have not taken a single penny from any country, whatsoever, ever, number one.
 
Number two, this is a president… I have released all of my tax returns,  years, go look at them,  years of my tax return. You have not released a single solitary year of your tax return. What are you hiding? Why are you unwilling? The foreign countries are paying you a lot. Russia’s paying you a lot. China’s paying you a lot on your hotels and all your businesses all around the country, all around the world. And China’s building a new road to a new golf course you have overseas. So, what’s going on here? Release your tax return or stop talking about corruption.
 
I have to respond to that.
 
Why did he… he’s been saying this for four years, show us, just show us, stop playing around. You’ve been saying for four years you’re going to release your taxes.
 
Nobody knows, Mr. President. What they do know is you’re not paying your taxes, or you’re paying taxes that are so low, when last time he said, what he paid, he said, I only pay that little because I’m smart. I know how to game the system. Come on. Come on, folks.
 
Sure.
 
Nothing was unethical. Here’s what the deal. With regard to Ukraine. We had this whole question about whether or not, because he was on the board, I later learned of Burisma, a company that somehow, I had done something wrong, yet every single solitary person, when he was going through his impeachment, testifying under oath, who work for him, said I did my job impeccably. I carried out U.S. policy, not one single solitary thing was out of line, not a single thing, number one.
 
Number two, the guy who got in trouble in Ukraine was this guy trying to bribe the Ukrainian government to say something negative about me, which they would not do and did not do because it never ever, ever happened. My son has not made money in terms of this thing about, what are you talking about, China. I have not had… the only guy who made money from China is this guy. He’s the only one. Nobody else has made money from China.
 
No basis for that. Everybody investigated that. No one said anything he did was wrong in Ukraine.
 
Not true.
 
What I’d make China do is play by the international rules, not like he has done. He has caused the deficit of the China to go up, not down, with China, up, not down. We are making sure that in order to do business in China, you have to give all your intellectual property. You have to have a partner in China. It’s %, we would not do that at all, number one.
 
Number two, we’re in a situation where China would have to play by the rules internationally as well. When I met with Xi and when I was still vice-president, he said we’re setting up air identification zones in the South China Sea. You can’t fly through them. I said we’re going to fly through them. We just flew B-, B- bombers through it. We’re not going to pay attention. They have to play by the rules. And what’s he do? He embraces guys like the thugs, like in North Korea and the Chinese president and Putin and others, and he pokes his finger [inaudible ] all of our friends, all of our allies. We make up only… we’re %, % of the world’s economy. We need to be having the rest of our friends with us saying to China, “These are the rules. You play by them, or you’re going to pay the price for not paying by them economically.”
 
That’s the way I will run it, and that’s what we did and upholding steel tariffs and a range of other things when we were president and vice-president.
 
… and Vice President.
 
Not true.
 
That’s not true.
 
Tax payer’s money.
 
Taxpayer’s money. Didn’t come from China.
 
Not true.
 
My response is, look, there’s a reason why he’s bringing up all this malarkey. There’s a reason for it. He doesn’t want to talk about the substantive issues. It’s not about his family and my family. It’s about your family, and your family’s hurting badly. If you’re a middle-class family, you’re getting hurt badly right now. You’re sitting at the kitchen table this morning deciding, “Well, we can’t get new tires. They’re bald, because we have to wait another month or so.” Or, “Are we going to be able to pay the mortgage?” Or, “Who’s going to tell her she can’t go back to community college?” They’re the decisions you’re making, and the middle-class families like I grew up in Scranton and Claymont, they’re in trouble. We should be talking about your families, but that’s the last thing he wants to talk about.
 
Because I’d make it clear, which we were making clear to China, they had to be part of the deal, because I made it clear as a spokesperson for the illustration when I went to China that I said, “Why are you moving your missile defense up so close? Why are you moving more forces here? Why are you continue to do military maneuvers with South Korea?” I said, “Because North Korea is a problem, and we’re going to continue to do it so we can control them. We’re going to make sure we can control them and make sure they can not hurt us. And so if you want to do something about it, step up and help. If not, it’s going to continue.” What has he done? He’s legitimized North Korea. He’s talked about his good buddy, who’s a thug, a thug. And he talks about how we’re better off. And they have much more capable missiles, able to reach us territory much more easily than they ever did before.
 
On the condition that he would agree that he would be drawing down his nuclear capacity. The Korean Peninsula should be a nuclear free zone.
 
We had a good relationship with Hitler before he, in fact, invaded Europe, the rest of Europe. Come on. The reason he would not meet with President Obama is because President Obama said, “We’re going to talk about denuclearization. We’re not going to legitimize you and we’re going to continue to push stronger and stronger sanctions on you.” That’s why he wouldn’t meet with us.
 
What I’m going to do is pass Obamacare with a public option, and become Bidencare. The public option is an option that says that if you in fact do not have the wherewithal, if you qualify for Medicaid and you do not have the wherewithal in your state to get Medicaid, you automatically are enrolled, providing competition for insurance companies. That’s what’s going to happen. Secondly, we’re going to make sure we reduce the premiums and reduce drug prices by making sure that there’s competition, that doesn’t exist now, by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices with the insurance companies. Thirdly, the idea that I want to eliminate private insurance, the reason why I had such a fight with  candidates for the nomination was I support private insurance. That’s why. Not one single person with private insurance would lose their insurance under my plan, nor did they under Obamacare. They did not lose their insurance unless they chose they wanted to go to something else.
 
Lastly, we’re going to make sure we’re in a situation that we actually protect pre-existing. There’s no way he can protect pre-existing conditions. None, zero. You can’t do it in the ether. He’s been talking about this for a long time. He’s never come up with a plan. I guess we’re going to get the pre-existing condition plan the same time we got the infrastructure plan that we waited for since ’, ’, ’, and . I still have a few more minutes. I know you’re getting anxious. The fact is that he’s already cost the American people, because of his terrible handling of the COVID virus and economic spillover.  million people have lost their private insurance, and he wants to take away  million more people who have it under Obamacare and over  million people with pre-existing conditions. And all the people from COVID are going to have pre-existing conditions, what are they going to do?
 
I say it’s ridiculous. It’s like saying that the fact that there’s a public option that people can choose, that makes it a socialist plan. Look, the difference between the president and I… I think healthcare is not a privilege, it’s a right. Everyone should have the right to have affordable healthcare, and I am very proud of my plan. It’s gotten endorsed by all the major labor unions, as well as a whole range of other people who, in fact, are concerned in the medical field. This is something that’s going to save people’s lives. And this is going to give some people an opportunity to have healthcare for their children. How many of you at home are worried and rolling around in bed tonight, wondering what in God’s name you’re going to do if you get sick, because you’ve lost your health insurance and your company’s gone under? We have to provide health insurance for people at an affordable rate, and that’s what I do.
 
By the way-
 
You can ask it.
 
I have to respond to healthcare.
 
My response is, people deserve to have affordable healthcare, period. Period, period, period. And the Biden care proposal will in fact provide for that affordable healthcare, lower premiums. What we’re going to do is going to cost some money. It’s going to cost over $ billion over  years to do it. And they’re going to have lower premiums. You can buy into the better plans, the cheaper plans, lower your premiums, deal with unexpected billing, and have your drug prices drop significantly. He keeps talking about it. He hasn’t done a thing for anybody on healthcare. Not a thing.
 
Wrong.
 
Bernie.
 
He’s a very confused guy. He thinks he’s running against somebody else. He’s running against Joe Biden. I beat all those other people because I disagreed with them. Joe Biden, he’s running against. And the idea that we’re in a situation that is going to destroy Medicare… This is the guy that the actuary of Medicare said, “If in fact…” That’s Social Security. “If in fact he continues his plan to withhold the tax on Social Security, Social Security will be bankrupt by  with no way to make up for it.” This is the guy who’s tried to cut Medicare. The idea that Donald Trump is lecturing me on Social Security and Medicare? Come on.
 
May I respond?
 
Look, the idea that the stock market is booming is his only measure of what’s happening. Where I come from in Scranton and Claymont, the people don’t live off of the stock market. Just in the last three years, during this crisis, the billionaires in this country made, according to Wall Street,  billion more dollars.  billion more dollars. Because that’s his only measure. What happens to the ordinary people out there? What happens to them?
 
By the way, as you know, the Republican leader in the United States Senate said he can’t pass it. He will be able to pass it. He does not have Republican votes. Why isn’t he talking to his Republican friends?
 
I have, and they have pushed it. Look, they passed this act all the way back in the beginning of the summer. It’s not new. It’s been out there. This HEROES Act has been sitting there. And look at what’s happening. When I was in charge of the recovery act with $ billion, I was able to get $ billion to local communities that have to balance their budgets and states that have to balance their budgets. And then they have to fire firefighters, teachers, first responders, law enforcement officers, so they could keep their cities and counties running. He will not support that. They have not done a thing for them. And Mitch McConnell said, “Let them go bankrupt. Let them go bankrupt.” Come on. What’s the matter with these guys?
 
By the way, if I get elected, I’m not going to… I’m running as a proud Democrat, but I’m going to be an American president. I don’t see red states and blue states. What I see is American United States. And folks, every single state out there finds themself in trouble. They’re going to start laying off, whether they’re red or blue, cops, firefighters, first responders, teachers, because they have to balance their budget. And the founders were smart. They allowed the federal government to deficit spend to compensate for the United States of America.
 
I do, because I think one of the things we’re going to have to do is we’re going to have to bail them out too. We should be bailing them out now, those small businesses. You got one in six of them going under. They’re not going to be able to make it back. They passed a package that allows us to be able… They call it PPP. Money is supposed to go to help them do everything from organize how they can deal with their businesses being open safely, schools, how they can make classrooms smaller, how they can hire more teachers, how they can put ventilation systems in. They need the help. The businesses, as well as the schools, need the help. These guys will not help them. It’s not giving them any of the money.
 
Not true, by the way.
 
Every-
 
No one should work one job, be below poverty. People are making six, seven, eight bucks an hour. These first responders we all clap for as they come down the street because they’ve allowed us to make it. What’s happening? They deserve a minimum wage of $. Anything below that puts you below the poverty level. And there is no evidence that when you raise the minimum wage, businesses go out of business. That is simply not true.
 
These -plus kids came with parents. They separated them at the border to make it a disincentive to come to begin with. “Be real tough. We’re really strong.” And guess what? They cannot… Coyotes didn’t bring them over. Their parents were with them. They got separated from their parents. And it makes us a laughingstock and violates every notion of who we are as a nation.
 
We did not separate the [crosstalk ]-
 
Let’s talk about what we’re talking about.
 
Let’s talk about what we’re talking about. What happened? Parents were ripped… Their kids were ripped from their arms and separated, and now they cannot find over  of the sets of those parents, and those kids are alone. Nowhere to go. Nowhere to go. It’s criminal. It’s criminal.
 
Because we made a mistake made. It took too long to get it right. Took too long to get it right. I’ll be President of the United States, not Vice President of the United States. And the fact is I’ve made it very clear. Within a  days, I’m going to send to the United States Congress a pathway to citizenship for over  million undocumented people. And all of those so-called dreamers, those DACA kids, they’re going to be immediately certified again to be able to stay in this country and put on a path to citizenship. The idea that they are being sent home by this guy and they want to do that is they’ve gone to they’ve never seen before. I can imagine. You’re five years old. Your parents are taking across the Rio Grande River and it’s illegal. And you say, “Oh, no, Mom. Leave me here. I’m not going to go with you.” They been here. Many of them are model citizens. Over , of them are first responders out there taking care of people during this crisis. We owe them. We owe them.
 
The catch and release, you know what he’s talking about there? If in fact you had a family came across and they were arrested, they in fact were given a date to show up for their hearing. They were released. And guess what? They showed up for a hearing. And this is the first President in the history of the United States of America that anybody seeking asylum has to do it in another country. That’s never happened before in America. That’s never happened before in America. You come to the United States and you make your case that, “I seek asylum based on the following premise, why I deserve it under American law.” They’re sitting in squalor on the other side of the river.
 
Know the law, what he’s telling you is simply not true. Check it out.
 
Check it out.
 
That’s right. And you  kids not knowing where in God’s name they’re going to be and lost their parents.
 
I do. I do. My daughter is a social worker and she’s written a lot about this. She has her graduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania in social work. And one of the reasons why I ended up working on the East Side of Wilmington, Delaware, which is % African-American, was to learn more about what was going on. I never had to tell my daughter if she’s pulled over, make sure she puts… For a traffic stop. “Put both hands on top of the wheel and don’t reach for the glove box because someone may shoot you.” But a Black parent, no matter how wealthy or how poor they are, has to teach their child, “When you’re walking down the street, don’t have a hoodie on when you go across the street.
 
Making sure that you, in fact, if you get pulled over just, yes, sir, no, sir. Hands on top of the wheel. Because you are in fact, the victim, whether you’re a person making , … child of a $, a year person or someone who’s on food stamps. The fact of the matter is, there is institutional racism in America. And we have always said, we’ve never lived up to it, that we hold these truths to be self-evident, all men and women are created equal. Well, guess what, we have never, ever lived up to it. But we’ve always constantly been moving the needle further and further to inclusion, not exclusion. This is the first president to come along and says, that’s the end of that. We’re not going to do that anymore. We have to provide for economic opportunity, better education, better healthcare, better access to schooling, better access to opportunity to borrow money to start businesses, all the things we can do. And I’ve laid out a clear plan as to how to do those things just to give people a shot. It’s about accumulating the ability to have wealth as well as it is to be free from violence.
 
My response to that is I never ever said what he accused me of saying. The fact of the matter is in  though, after the crime bill had been in the law for awhile, this is a guy who said, “The problem with the crime bill, there’s not enough people in jail. There’s not enough people in jail.” And go on my website, get the quote, the date when he said it, “not enough people.” He talked about marauding gangs, young gangs, and the people who are going to maraud our cities. This is a guy who in the Central Park Five, five innocent black kids, he continued to push for making sure that they got the death penalty. None of them were guilty of the crimes they were suggested. Look and granted, he did in fact, let  people … he commuted  people’s sentences.
 
We commuted over , people’s sentences, over ,. The very law he’s talking about is a law that in fact, initiated by Barack Obama. And secondly, we’re in a situation here where the federal prison system was reduced by , people under our administration. And one of those things we should be doing, there should be no, no minimum mandatories in the law. That’s why I’m offering $ billion to states to change their state laws to eliminate minimum mandatories and set up drug courts. No one should be going to jail because they have a drug problem. They should be going to rehabilitation, not to jail. We should fundamentally  
We did-
 
Well, I’ll tell you what I hope he does look at me because what’s happening here is, you know who I am. You know who he is, you know his character, you know my character, you know our reputations for honor and telling the truth. I am anxious to have this race. I’m anxious to see this take place. I am … The character of the country is on the ballot. Our character’s on the ballot, look at us closely.
 
Nobody’s calling me-
 
Nobody.
 
I have to respond to that. Because look-
 
There are  former national intelligence folks who said that what he’s accusing me of is a Russian plant. They have said that this has all the … five former heads of the CIA, both parties, say what he’s saying is a bunch of garbage. Nobody believes it except him and his good friend, Rudy Giuliani.
 
That’s exactly what was told.
 
Abraham Lincoln here is one of the most racist presidents we’ve had in modern history, he pours fuel on every single racist fire, every single one. Started off his campaign coming down the escalator saying he’s getting rid of those Mexican rapists, he’s ban Muslims because they’re Muslims, he has moved around and made everything worse across the board. He says to… About the Proud Boys, last time we were on stage here he said, “I tell them to stand down and stand ready.” Come on, this guy has a dog whistle about as big as a foghorn.
 
You said you’re Abraham Lincoln.
 
You said-
 
And I’m saying-
 
Oh, God.
 
Not true.
 
One of the things is that in the ’s we passed  percent, all  senators voted for a bill on drugs and how to deal with drugs, it was a mistake. I’ve been trying to change since then particularly the portion on cocaine. That’s why I’ve been arguing that in fact we should not send anyone to jail for a pure drug offense, they should be going into treatment across the board, that’s what we should be spending money. And that’s why I set up drug courts which were never funded by our Republican friends. They should not be going to jail for a drug or an alcohol problem, they should be going into treatment. That’s what we’ve been trying to do, that’s what I’m going to get done because I think the American people have now seen that in fact it was a mistake to pass those laws relating to drugs, but they were not in the Crime Bill.
 
We got a lot of it done. We released ,-
 
, prisoners were released from federal prison, we have… There were over a thousand people who were given clemency. [inaudible ]. In fact, were the ones that put in the legislation saying we could look at pattern and practice of police departments and what they were doing, how they’re conducting themselves. I could go on, but we began the process, we lost an election, that’s why I’m running to win back that election and change his terrible policy.
 
We had a Republican Congress, that’s the answer.
 
You did what we already had done.
 
Climate change, global warming is an existential threat to humanity. We have a moral obligation to deal with it. And we’re told by all the leading scientists in the world we don’t have much time, we’re going to pass the point of no return within the next  to  years. Four more years of this man eliminating all the regulations that were put in by us to clean up the climate, to clean up… To limit the emissions, will put us in a position where we’re going to be in real trouble. Here’s where we have a great opportunity. I was able to get both all the environmental organizations as well as the labor, the people worried about jobs, to support my climate plan.
 
Because what it does, it will create millions of new good paying jobs, we’re going to invest in, for example, ,… Excuse me, , charging stations on our highways so that we can own the electric car market of the future. In the meantime, China is doing that. We’re going to be in a position where we’re going to see to it that we’re going to take  million existing buildings and  million existing homes and retrofit them so they don’t leak as much energy, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of…
 
So they don’t leak as much energy saving hundreds of millions of barrels of oil in the process and creating significant number of jobs. By the way, the whole idea of what this is all going to do, it’s going to create millions of jobs and it’s going to clean the environment. Our health and our jobs are at stake. That’s what’s happening and what right now, by the way, Wall Street firms indicated that my plan, my plan will in fact, create . million jobs,  million more than his. This is from Wall Street and I’ll create $ trillion more in economic growth than his proposal does. Not on climate, just on economy.
 
I don’t know where he comes from. I don’t know where he comes up with these numbers.
 
A hundred trillion dollars, give me a break. This plan has been endorsed by every major, every major environmental group and every labor group, labor, because they know the future lies. The future lies in us being able to breathe and they know they’re good jobs and getting us there.
 
By the way, the fastest growing industry in America is the electric, excuse me, solar energy and wind. He thinks wind causes cancer, windmills. It’s the fastest growing jobs and they pay good prevailing wages, ,  bucks an hour. We can grow and we can be cleaner if we go the route I’m proposing.
 
Find me a scientist who says that.
 
False.
 
I never said I oppose fracking.
 
Show the tape, put it on your website.
 
Put it on the website. The fact of the matter is he’s flat lying.
 
I do rule out banning fracking because the answer we need, we need other industries to transition, to get to ultimately a complete zero emissions by . What I will do with fracking over time is make sure that we can capture the emissions from the fracking, capture the emissions from gas. We can do that and we can do that by investing money in doing it, but it’s a transition to that.
 
Fracking on federal land. I said, no fracking and/or oil on federal land.
 
My response is that those people live on what they call fence lines. He doesn’t understand this. They live near chemical plants that in fact, pollute, chemical plants and oil plants and refineries that pollute.
 
I used to live near that when I was growing up in Claymont, Delaware and there are more oil refineries in Marcus Hook and the Delaware River than there is any place, including in Houston at the time. When my mom get in the car and when there are first frost to drive me to school, turning the windshield wiper, there’d been oil slick in the window. That’s why so many people in my state were dying and getting cancer. The fact is those frontline communities, it’s not a matter of what you’re paying them. It matters how you keep them safe. What do you do? You impose restrictions on the pollutions that if the pollutants coming out of those fence line communities.
 
By the way, I have a transition from the old industry, yes.
 
I will transition. It is a big statement.
 
Because I would stop.
 
Because the oil industry pollutes, significantly.
 
Here’s the deal-
 
Well if you let me finish the statement, because it has to be replaced by renewable energy over time, over time, and I’d stopped giving to the oil industry, I’d stop giving them federal subsidies. You won’t get federal subsidies to the gas, oh, excuse me to solar and wind.
 
Why are we giving it to oil industry?
 
He takes everything out of context, but the point is, look, we have to move toward net zero emissions. The first place to do that by the year  is in energy production, by  totally.
 
No, I’m going to rejoin Paris Accord and make China abide by what they agreed to.
 
I will say, I’m an American President. I represent all of you, whether you voted for me or against me, and I’m going to make sure that you’re represented. I’m going to give you hope. We’re going to move; we’re going to choose science over fiction. We’re going to choose hope over fear. We’re going to choose to move forward because we have enormous opportunities, enormous opportunities to make things better.
 
We can grow this economy, we can deal with the systemic racism. At the same time, we can make sure that our economy is being run and moved and motivated by clean energy, creating millions of new jobs. That’s the fact, that’s what we’re going to do. And I’m going to say, as I said at the beginning, what is on the ballot here is the character of this country. Decency, honor, respect. Treating people with dignity, making sure that everyone has an even chance. And I’m going to make sure you get that. You haven’t been getting it the last four years.
 
Thank you.

