 (11:27)
Wow. Thank you very much. That was a little bit of a surprise. That was a surprise. Thank you, Melania. Good job. They love our first lady. They love our first lady. And America is blessed to have you. Thank you very much, honey. That was great. So I’m thrilled to be here in my, our, home state, Florida. I love this state and I love the people of this state. And five days from now, we are going to win Florida and we are going to win four more years in the White House. And we’re going on to win a record share of the Hispanic American vote. You see what’s happening.
 (12:24)
Ah, they’re very concerned back there. The fake news, they are so concerned. Melania, you don’t know too much about them. You’ve seen enough. But they are very unhappy. You know what’s happening, don’t you? You see what’s happening? We’ve led Florida every single day. What’s going on? This is a terrible thing for them. Actually, it’s a good thing for them. They just don’t know it. They haven’t quite figured that out yet. No, we’re doing incredibly in Florida. We’re doing incredibly all over. And this isn’t based on polls, this is based on facts. This is based on votes that are coming in. But you have to get out and vote. We are creating the greatest red wave in the history of our country.
 (13:12)
Oh, it’s been amazing. We’ll talk about it a little while. I want to get some of the little introductions and introductory things out, but we have to talk about what’s going on in our country with the big tech, the power of big tech. They’re incredible. They’re incredible. No, no, no. I heard about the power for a long time. The power of big tech. I heard about it four years ago. “Sir, big tech is against you. They’re tremendously powerful. You can’t beat them.” Then we had the election and we won. I said, “Oh, how did that happen?” And the fake news media, 94% of the stories about us are negative. Think of it. Think of it. 64% of the stories about Sleepy Joe are positive. How the hell do you have a positive story about this guy? How do you have a positive story about him?
 (14:04)
This election is a choice between my plan to deliver historics. And you know what this is going to be, right? Historic. This is historic prosperity. Another major tax cut to go along with the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. And record job growth. And Joe Biden’s plan is to deliver punishing lockdown. She’s going to lock you down. And Florida’s all opened up. You have a great governor. Did he speak too long today or not? No? No, I watched him on the plane. I said, “Oh, look, there’s Ron.” They have the little thing in the box. I said, “Oh look, there’s Ron. He’s speaking.” He looked like he was up there a long time. She said yes. He’s a great governor. You have a great governor. He’s a great guy.
 (14:58)
They want to give you massive tax hikes. The first time that I’ve ever seen … I’ve been with politics all my life, essentially. Only doing this for a few years on this side of it. But we’ve done well, haven’t we? What do you think? A senator came into my office, said, “Sir.” An older guy, nice guy, pro, total pro. “Sir, I’ve been in nine races and I’ve won seven of them. So now I’m a United States Senator.” I said, “Senator, I’ve been in one race and I’ve won one. Now we want to win two. But I won one. But it was the presidency.” We took them all by surprise, didn’t we? We took them by surprise. They’re still trying to recover.
 (15:44)
And you will have a crippling depression, the likes of which you’ve never seen, if Sleepy Joe becomes your president. And your 401Ks, throw them out the window because you know what’s going to happen. And you know our stock market has a big headwind. The headwind is if he wins, and we are doing great. You see the number today? 33.1 GDP. The biggest in the history of our country by almost triple, right? Almost triple. Now it’s very much bigger than any GDP we’ve ever had. You have to go back to the 1950s, and then it’s less than half. This is the greatest number, 33.1%. If you asked me two weeks ago, I would’ve said I’ll take 12%. 12% would have been very nice. Nobody ever heard of 12%. 33.1. And let me tell you what they’re going to do. I never even thought of this one. They won’t even talk about it. This is the biggest event in business in 50 years. Nobody’s ever seen a number like this. This is bigger than any nation. No nation has a number like that.
 (16:52)
Other nations right now, they’re … Look, we were compared to Europe. Germany is doing so well, France is doing so well, everyone’s doing so well. No, they’re not doing well. And you take a look at what’s going on. And we want the best for them, we’re on their team. We want to work with them and everything else, but they’re not doing well. They’re spiking up big, they’re shutting down, they’re locking down. I disagree with that because we’re never going to lockdown again. We locked down, we understood the disease. And now we’re open for business. And that’s what it is. And that’s what it is. This explosive economic growth is four times greater than what the experts expected. They expected a number that would be like 7%, 8%.
 (17:35)
But here’s what’s going to happen. You’re going to go back home. You’re going to say, “That was incredible. Melania was unbelievable. The governor was incredible. I’ve never heard anybody speak like that. Trump was okay too. But we have no choice. We have to vote for Trump because it’s between Trump and Sleepy Joe. And anybody beats Sleepy Joe.” I can take a couple of these guys, they’re friends of mine. They’re not good people. They’re better than Joe. I will tell you. Now, do you believe what I’m running against? I’m running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics. I don’t care. Win, lose, or draw. This is the worst candidate in the history. He shouldn’t be there. Because Pocahontas kept going instead of getting out. Then it would have been against Bernie, which would have been fine too. You know what? You would have had a more energetic base if we had Bernie. That’s one thing. Because I don’t know if they have a base.
 (18:34)
Here’s what’s happened. He goes for a speech. They’re showing you thousands. And look, as far as all the way back to that building, as far as the eye can see. And Biden is leaving his basement today, he took the lid off. You know what he does? He takes the lid off, runs to the closest part of Delaware, like if he can get a little piece of Pennsylvania. People in Pennsylvania are wise to him. They know all about his no fracking, no fracking, no fracking. Then he gets to Pennsylvania. He learns it’s a million jobs. And by the way, Pennsylvania, they give us that you can fire up your factories. They give us the energy. And it’s inexpensive energy. So he goes to Pennsylvania. All of a sudden, he changes. “Yeah, so I have nothing against fracking.” And the press doesn’t call him out on it. Right? And they don’t call them out on where’s Hunter? They don’t call him out, where’s Hunter? Where’s Hunter? Is Hunter in the crowd? They don’t call him out. They don’t call him out on where’s Hunter?
 (19:44)
It’s crazy. It’s crazy. Some people said, I get a call from all the experts, right? Guys that ran for president six, seven, eight times. Never got past the first round, but they’re calling me up, “Sir, you shouldn’t be speaking about Hunter. You shouldn’t be saying bad things about Biden because nobody cares.” I disagree. Maybe that’s why I’m here and they’re not. But they say, ” Talk about your economic success. Talk about 33.1%, the greatest in history.” Now, look, if I do, I mean, how many times can I say it? I’ll say it five or six times during the speech. 33.1.
 (20:45)
But you look at that and you look at Tucker Carlson, what he did the other night. Great. Great. And followed up by Sean and followed up by Laura. And the next day, nothing at all, right? Nothing. Nothing in the New York Times, the fake New York Times. Hey, how about Anonymous? Did we see Anonymous? A low staffer. Anonymous turned out to be a guy. I’m trying to figure out, I don’t know who the hell this guy is. So the New York Times said, “A senior white house official.” Nobody knew who he was. Look, we are in big trouble with the press. They are truly the enemy of the people. They are the enemy of the people.
 (21:39)
So this guy goes out, this low life. Well, I never saw him. I think he has a picture of me standing there like I do with thousands of people. This low life goes out and he writes a book. By the way, when he left, he had nothing but praise for the Trump. Oh, it’s incredible. Incredible. Then somebody gets him at the New York Times, the fake New York Times. And all of a sudden, he becomes nasty and he writes. And they say, “A top White House official.” Well, he was a staffer, low, had nothing to do with the White House. He had nothing to do. And he goes in, and you know what? There should be major criminal liability for some scum like this.
 (22:19)
And for a year, everybody walks into my office, Secretary of State Pompeo. I could name every one of them, all good people. I’m looking at them and say, “I wonder if that could be the one.” And it turns out to be this low life that nobody knows who the hell he is. He had nothing to do with us. I don’t think I ever met him. And I might’ve met him. I think somebody said he has a picture of me standing someplace. This is a disgrace to our country. It shouldn’t happen. And he should be prosecuted. Are you listening to me back in Washington? He should be prosecuted along with the New York Times because it was a story made up, it was fake news made up by the New York Times. And you know who he works for now? CNN. He works for CNN Right there. See the camera right there with the light that just went off? See that, honey? That red light just went off. Fake news, CNN.
 (23:18)
And Anderson Cooper asked him, “Are you Anonymous?” And he lied to him. He said, “No,” essentially. Said, “No, I’m not.” And he works for CNN. I would think CNN would be firing him for that, but this is a real low life. You know who else he works for? Google. He works for Google. I think Google should fire him very quickly because bad things are going to happen to him. But think of what he does to our government. Right? It’s like a horrible, treasonous, horrible thing that you can do this and you can get away with it.
 (24:04)
Weekly jobless claims, this is boring but it’s really good, just hit a seven month low. In other words, from the beginning of the pandemic seven months ago. We’re going to have next year the best year we’ve ever had economically. And it’s true. Biden is holding back the stock market because it’s an election, crazy things can happen. Maybe 100% of the people in Florida decide not to vote. You never know. But we have a headwind. So it’s gone down a little bit over the last few days because you’re coming close. And it could be. We’re going to win this election so big. You watch. You watch. We’re going to win so big. And that’s the only reason the market’s going down. The market’s going down because if he gets in, seriously, you’re going to have one of the worst depressions we’ve ever had. You’re going to have. And John Roberts from Fox is back there. And I think he agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want-
 (25:03)
He agrees. And John Roberts is very unhappy because he doesn’t want his 401K to go down the tubes. No, John’s treated us very fairly. Not perfect. He’s not perfect, I will say, but he’s been overall pretty good. He’s pretty good. So, CNN, Google, we got to do something about all of it. New York Times is fake. It’s fake. They write so many fake stories. Thanks to our policies, America is experiencing the fastest and biggest recovery. We’re having the best recovery anywhere in the world. No other country, small or large is recovering like us. Think of that. In the past five months, we’ve created a record 11.4 million American jobs, the fastest job growth in the history of our country. Our job growth has been 23 times faster than the first five months under Obama/Biden recovery, which was, by the way, the worst recovery since the Great Depression. You do know that, right?
 (26:07)
And just so you know, because all Biden does is talks about COVID. Right? He doesn’t call it the China virus. You know why? Because China has him paid off. He can’t use that term. They gave his son one and a half billion to manage. He makes millions of dollars a year, I assume. Right? The smartest guys in Wall Street said, “No, sir, that could not have happened. We can’t get it.” No, took him about, what, 10 minutes? He walked in, he walked out with one and a half billion. Hey, maybe he’s not so stupid after all. Right? That’s the only thing. I thought he was so dumb. Maybe he’s not as dumb as we think. Look, he cannot take on China. I didn’t say anything. I didn’t say… The biggest story, no, the second biggest story, the worst was when they spied on my campaign and they got caught. That’s the biggest political corruption story in the history of our country, but this could very well be second. And we have what’s called the laptop from hell, the laptop from hell. From what I’ve understood, you only have seen a tiny portion of it, but you know what the press is now doing? They’re blaming Russia. It’s Russia did it. Russia is the one that created the laptop. And Russia brought it into that little shop to have it fixed. Russia. I think Russia’s looking at us, they’re saying, “Those people are stone cold crazy. This is…” No, it was Russia’s fault. They said it. Loud and clear. It was Russia, Russia, Russia. Aren’t we tired of this crap?
 (28:03)
I saw a Schiff the other day, two days ago, watermelon, he looks like a watermelon head. Right? Remember he lied in the halls of Congress. He read my conversation with the president of Ukraine, but it wasn’t my conversation. Hey, how great do we love those people that took down the language, professional military people, word for word for word. If I didn’t have it, it would have been my word against shifty Schiff. Right? Eight times he said quid pro quo. Think of what that means. Eight times you’ve asked for the same thing. After the third time, the guy on the other side would say, “He’s got some serious problems.” I don’t even know him. I called him to say congratulations on becoming president of Ukraine, and for that, I got impeached.
 (28:51)
But you know what we have, we have a lot of great Republicans, and I hope you’re going to be voting for those Republicans, also. Great Republicans. We have one of them here, Mark Meadows. Has anyone ever heard of Mark Meadows? Took me three years to get them out of Congress and become chief of staff. He’s great. He’s here. He was one of our great ones. And you know who helped me a lot? Honestly, in fact, I said, “Don’t run for governor, Ron. Stay exactly where…” He was a Congressman, your governor. Right? There he is. Look at Mark. He’s out there working with the phone. He’s got the phone going. He uses two at one time. Right? But your governor was another one. He stood up… He’s Harvard and Yale. Do you know that? Your governor. He doesn’t talk about it. He doesn’t talk about it. But he would be on television defending me and fighting for me. There was a group…
 (29:45)
Jim Jordan. Did anyone ever hear of Jim Jordan? Jim Jordan, 128 and one. Jim was an NCA wrestling champion. One of the best, one of the best. He was a great one. He was a great one. And when you win like he won, he won everything. When you win like that, it’s also right here. It’s muscle, but it’s got to be muscle attached to a lot of brain. Right? You guys know, the athletes know it. But Jim was great, but Ron was fantastic, your governor. He asked me, he said, “Would you support me for governor?” I said, “No, not really. I’d rather have you stay right where you are. You’re doing a good job of defending me.” But think of it, what we had to do, and we got 197 to nothing in the House. Think of that. 197 to nothing. And then we went to the Senate, and we had 52 and a half to a half. You know who the half? But that’s okay.
 (30:38)
That was the guy that Sleepy Joe Biden he couldn’t remember his name. Remember he said the guy from… The guy from, isn’t he the governor from that place? Utah. Utah. I don’t know his name. I can’t remember his name. It was Romney. No, Sleepy Joe’s a little bit off. Let’s face it, Sleepy Joe is shot. And I’m not a fan of his, and he’s not a nice guy. If he was a nice guy I couldn’t say these things. He’s not a nice guy. Now he doesn’t remember whether or not he used to be a nice guy. He was never considered smart. He was a touchy feely guy. You know those guys? Touchy feely. But not a nice guy. Not a smart guy. Our incredible First Lady is sitting here right now, and she’s saying to herself, “I wonder if all rallies are like this.” No, most of them are a little bit different, but that’s okay. You know why, honey? We’re in Florida. This is like home. This is home. Right? This is home. We say it like it is. We say it like it is. We created the greatest economy in history, and now we are doing it again. See, oh, that hat, that beautiful hat? Let’s make America great again. Right? We’re going to make a new one. Let’s make America great again, again. We did it. We did it. Now we’re doing it again. My First Lady wants to do it again. Under my leadership, the Florida tourism industry and hospitality industry will come roaring back very soon. It’s ready to happen. We’re making the turn.
 (32:32)
We’ve got the vaccines coming very soon. The FDA has worked miracles. They had no choice, they had… This would have taken, if Joe was in charge, you wouldn’t have a vaccine for four years. I was going to say he was in charge of the swine flu. He calls it N1H1. It’s actually H1N1. I say, “Joe, it’s not. It’s H1. H comes…” It’s easy because H comes before N. I said, “Joe, Joe, that’s what it is.” I said, “Just go with swine flu. You don’t have to call it… The numbers are too complicated.” Three days ago he said, “I’m a proud Democrat running for the United States Senate, and I hope I have your support.” Look, we can’t games. You’ve seen enough. Haven’t you seen enough? This is crazy.
 (33:24)
But based on the early numbers I’ve seen, I think you understand exactly what I’m talking about. We have the potential. We have the greatest country in the world, but we have the potential to go to places that we’ve never been in a positive manner. The potential of our country is so incredible, and you see it happening already. You look at Germany, you look at all of these countries, they’re now locked down, they’ve got a lot of problems. You look at our numbers, look at our recovery, fastest recovery. We went down ,the least economically went down by [inaudible 00:08:57]. As much as it’s painful and terrible, we went down the least. We’ve done an incredible job. It was projected that we would lose 2.2 million people. Right? The projections were 2.2 million. By the way, we shouldn’t have lost one person. China should have never let this happen, they should have never let it escape, and we will not forget. We will not forget.
 (34:22)
Biden’s agenda will devastate the Hispanic-American community. He betrayed Hispanic-Americans for 47 years. He’s been very bad to the Hispanic-Americans, and what is happening with those poll numbers? I have the highest numbers. We are now, according to the polls I’m shown, which our real polls, we are now beating the Democrats for the first time ever with Hispanic-Americans. First time ever. First time ever. And I’ve always loved them, and I think they’ve always loved me. First time ever. First time ever. And the fakers back there are going crazy. And now Biden wants to close your small businesses and confiscate your guns. Second Amendment. Don’t worry about it, your Second Amendment.
 (35:18)
We’re letting far left rioters, looters, and vandals roam free. Look what he’s doing in Philadelphia. Look what’s happening. Those are people that he supported. He couldn’t even come out against them yesterday. They asked him a question, he said, “What’s Philadelphia? Where is it? Where is it?” He didn’t know what state it was in. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job. Could you imagine losing to this guy? Could you imagine? Our First Lady will have to say, “Darling, I don’t know. This is impossible.” But you have to be very careful when you say that. Whenever I say anything that even uses the word losing, the fake news said, “He is thinking about losing. This is a big story. President Trump thinks she’s going to lose.” No, I don’t. I don’t. I think you’re going to lose, and I think you’ve lost all credibility.
 (36:09)
And our elegant First Lady sits and she says, “What the hell is happening again?” This election is a choice between the American dream and a socialist nightmare. That’s what it is. It’s socialism. I used to say Venezuela on steroids. This would be, if they got in, a very, very, very large version of Venezuela, and it can happen with the Green New Deal and all these crazy… Look, AOC plus three, I heard she’s very insulted that I call her AOC. I’m not. I call her AOC plus three. That’s the three characters that… Ilhan Omar. I’m going to win Minnesota because of Ilhan Omar. She tells us how to run our country. She’s telling us how to run our country. I don’t think so. Ilhan Omar. So, we’re going to win the state of Minnesota for two reasons, her and the fact that when Minneapolis had their problem, they should’ve called us sooner.
 (37:32)
But when they called us, how long did it take? 25 minutes? It was extinguished. We could have done it the first hour instead of waiting for a week and a half. But the governors, they have to call, and I give the governor credit. He eventually called, He eventually called. They should call us, I’ll tell you, Oregon. They should call us in Portland. Oh, would I love to go in with the anarchists. They would last 15 minutes. Our guys, you got to hold them back. They want to… ” Let us in, sir. We’d like to go in.” I meet them. I see troops. “Sir, we’d like to go into Oregon. We’ll take care of it.” I say, “Just calm down. Just calm down.” It wouldn’t take them long. It would take them about 15… How long? And then we’d, well, we’d do things, and then, eventually, they’ end up going home about 10 years later, back home to mom and dad where they started in the basement. Antifa.
 (38:23)
You know Antifa? So, Biden called it an idea. He said, “Antifa’s just an idea.” I said, “No, when you get hit over the head behind your back with a baseball bat, that’s not an idea. That’s not an idea.” Didn’t he call the United States, he called the United States an idea, too. I said, “No, no, it’s not an idea. The United States is a great nation. That’s what it is. It’s not an idea.” He called us an idea, so he puts us in the same category as Antifa. As long as I am president, America will never be a socialist country, and I say it all the Time. This election will decide whether our children will be condemned to the misery of socialism or whether they will inherit the glorious legacy of American freedom. This election will decide whether the Biden Harris…
 (39:24)
How about her? How about her? I’ll tell you what, when our great vice president Mike Pence debated her, it was a total… You know the expression, if it were a fight, they would have ended it. Within two days they were saying, the fake news, “She did magnificently well against Mike Pence.” No, no. No. That’s what happens. You do great, great, great. Two days later, you realize they have it down that you lost now. Mike did fantastically. He’s a great vice president. He works very hard. I’ll tell you one thing. His kids are in the military, and they’re teachers. I guarantee you one thing, Mike Pence has not made hundreds of millions of dollars by scamming foreign countries, because that’s what they’ve done. They’ve made hundreds of millions of dollars, and nobody wants to talk about it.
 (40:23)
Look at that. Oh, are they doing that on purpose? Are they friend or foe? I don’t know. Actually, it felt good. I felt water on my face. I said, “Where the hell is that coming from?” They may be doing that on purpose. Let’s find out if they’re friend or foe, and if their foe, let’s take care of those sons of bitches. Look at that. Are you okay? Oh, look, they’re hitting the press. That’s okay. Oh, there go the cameras. There goes a million dollars worth of equipment. Look at that. Wow. That’s cool, actually. And I’ll tell the media, “I have nothing to do with that,” but it is cooling. I’m feeling a little… It’s amazing. It’s amazing. And I say it all the time, because we’ve liked Ronald Reagan, we’ve liked a lot of… Mostly they’re stiffs. Mostly. Generally speaking, they don’t do the job. Right? But we’ve had good ones like Ronald Reagan. He’s the one I think about. But nobody ever chanted… First of all, he’d never get a crowd like this. He’d have two or 300 people, they’d be in a ballroom. That was like the norm.
 (41:47)
You got to see yesterday. We had 35, 40,000 people. We were in Arizona the day before, two days before. We were in Pennsylvania. We did three in Pennsylvania, one bigger than the next, like this. And you know what’s common? The love. It’s all the same. The love is incredible. Love for our country. It’s the love for our country. But there’s never been a chance we love you… I’m watching this guy here. He looks like he could take on anybody in the world. He’s a big, strong guy. I don’t think he’s ever cried in his life before, and I see him wiping away tears. We love you. We love you. This guy, he hasn’t cried since he was a baby and probably didn’t cry then either, and now he’s crying. No, there has never been that chance before, and I appreciate it. And I’m crying. That’s why I ended early. I’m crying, except I don’t want them to say, “You’re president broke down in tears today.” I don’t know. That’s not cool. We don’t want President Xi of China to say, “Gee, I just saw something that surprises me.”
 (42:54)
We’ve taken billions and billions of dollars out of China. We gave 28 billion to our farmers, 28, right out of China. I don’t want to have… But then the plague came in, right? Then the plague came in. That [inaudible 00:43:08] everything… We made a great deal with China. The ink wasn’t dry before the plague came in, so it’s a whole different feeling. I will say, three weeks ago, they ordered more corn, more soy beans, more beef than at any time in the history of this country, so they obviously think I’m going to win. They obviously think we’re going to win, and they want to make us happy, but we’re not happy because that should have been stopped. And it’s not. Here, all over the world, you see what’s going on. Europe. It’s so sad, but you see what’s going on. 188 countries all over the world.
 (43:43)
What China has done to this world, what they’ve done… People come up to me, they’re clothed and masks and stuff and this… Hello, president. Hello. I said, “Look at this, what China has done to our country. What China…” I may do that. You better be careful. What China has done to this country, which it’s not the first time either. Oh, they’re paying. They’re paying. But you can never pay for 200,000 more lives. You can never pay for that. Yeah, we can make them pay plenty, but a 210,000 lives. But it would have been two million lives. It’s incredible the job that we’ve done and that the American people have done. This could have been two million lives. They said 2.2 million lives. No, they’re going to pay.
 (44:48)
We believe in safe streets, secure communities, and we believe in law and order, not like in Philadelphia. And they can’t let that happen. They can’t let the looters run wild. They can’t do it. You can’t. You either have law and order or you don’t. Philadelphia can’t do what they’re doing, and they have good police in Philadelphia. They like Trump. I can tell you. I’ve been endorsed by every law enforcement group. New York’s finest, they endorsed me. They’ve never endorsed a presidential candidate. New York’s finest endorsed me. It was a great honor because I grew up with New York’s finest. And they are, they’re incredible people. They’re not being allowed to do their job. They’ve been way… He cut back a billion dollars, he took back, and now crime is way up. And it’s not even the money, they’re not being allowed… They’re incredible people. Tough as hell, fair, they love our country. They’re not being allowed in New York to do our job. Between the governor and the mayor, they’re being just absolutely…
 (45:46)
And they want to leave. They want to get out. They have plenty of other opportunity. They don’t need the danger. It’s a dangerous job for all police. But we’ve been endorsed by New York. We were endorsed by Chicago police. The Chicago police, that’s… Right? We’ve been endorsed by all of your sheriffs. You have sheriffs. You have great tough sheriffs. I know many of them, but the sheriffs, we had a big ceremony two months ago in Florida. Ron was there. You were endorsed. We got a doors by the sheriffs. All law enforcement all over Florida. And I asked Sleepy Joe at the debate, I said, “Joe, name one law enforcement agency, just one, in the whole country that endorsed you.” He couldn’t do it. Remember? Then Chris Wallace saved him. I had two people. I was going against Chris Wallace and him.
 (46:36)
Chris was much tougher. Actually, Chris was tougher than Joe. And then I said, “Joe, say the words law and order.” No. “Say the words law and honor, Joe. Say them.” And then Chris Wallace, “He doesn’t have to do that.” Oh, okay, Chris. Thanks. No, I like Chris’s father a lot better than I like him. Mike Wallace, the great Mike Wallace. He did me on 60 Minutes. It was a great… It was one of the few good pieces. He was a tough guy. Chris tries to be like him, but he doesn’t have what it takes. But Mike Wallace was a tough, tough guy. And he did me on 60 Minutes, and it was a great piece. He’s never recovered from that originally, but he passed away. He was a great guy and a great, great reporter, I’ll tell you. And he was a friend of mine. He was a friend of mine. That didn’t mean much to Chris.
 (47:25)
All we want is fairness. Right? And I will tell you, Kristen Welker, I thought she was very good. I really do. She shouldn’t have been because she was far left. Her family is a supporter of Democrats. Her father’s a big supporter of Democrat. She’s a supporter of Democrats. Should have been very unfair. I think she went out of her way. And most people say she wasn’t really fair to me, but she was because she always gave me a 10 seconds. She said, “Okay.” See, Chris should have done that, “You have 10 seconds.” 10 seconds to me is like an eternity.
 (47:56)
We did a lot of damage in that 10 seconds, including to get him to admit that he doesn’t want oil. He doesn’t want oil. I said, “Texas and Pennsylvania and Ohio, are you listening? Are you listening?” And you’ll see they were listening on November 3rd. I’m sorry you’ll have to wait till November 3rd. Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Oklahoma, North Dakota, they’re all listening. And you’re listening because you don’t want your energy prices to go through the roof. Right? And Michigan was listening because they want to produce cars and they don’t want to spend all that money on energy where they’re producing all of those factories that I got to go back to Michigan and go back to Ohio and go back to North Carolina and start brand new.
 (48:41)
And I’d see Prime Minister Abe of Japan. I’d say, “Prime minister, we’re tired of taking your millions of cars. You got to let us have factories.” Well, we can’t do that. This is a private decision. No, no, it’s not. You got to do it. But that is not government. I said, “You’re a powerful man, Shinzo.” He just retired. Unfortunately, he got ill, but he was a great man. He was great prime minister. Great guy, too.” But I said, “Shinzo, you have to do it. I’m sorry. We’re not going to take your cars. You got to make them in this country, in our country.” And he said, “I can’t do that, but let me work on it.” The following morning, five major Japanese companies announced they were coming to America, and they did. I called him up, I said, “Shinzo, I know you had nothing to do with it, but thank you anyway.” No, they run it tough over in Japan and China and these other places. Tuesday, your vote is going to save our country. Most important election we’ve ever had. We are going to defeat the Marxists and the socialist and the rioters and the flag burdens and the left wing extremists. We are going to defeat the anarchists, their anarchy. With your support, we will fight for American workers, we will defend our Second Amendment. Don’t worry, it’s very safe. If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone.
 (50:03)
If Biden got in, your Second Amendment is gone so fast. You know that. Support our police. Protect our borders. Expand school choice. So important. Ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase, “Made in the USA.” That’s what’s going to happen.
 (50:23)
My plan for America will deliver a safe vaccine. You’re going to have it in a few weeks. It’s coming very quickly. Great companies. Johnson & Johnson. Moderna, Pfizer, many, many companies. You’re going to have it. Seniors will be first in line to get it, and we will make it available to everybody free. It’s not your fault. It’s not your fault. We’re protecting our seniors. If you’re a senior and if you have a heart condition, if you have any kind of a certain type, especially diabetes, you’re in big trouble if you get hit by the China virus. Big, big trouble. So we’re going to make that vaccine. We’re going to make it free, and it’s coming from great, great firms. Our vaccine will eradicate the virus, and by the way, we have it. But whether we have it or not, it’s rounding the turn. It’s rounding the turn.
 (51:13)
Hey. Excuse me. I’m sure you didn’t hear. Nobody heard this, right? I had it. Did you know that? I had to get back on the trail? I said, “This is not good timing.” And I got better very quickly. First Lady had it. She had it, and she got better very quickly. But I’ll tell you who had it also. The doctor went to the First Lady and myself and said, “Barron has tested positive.” I said, “Excuse me, doctor, tested positive for what?” “He’s got COVID.” I said, “Okay.” Then about 12 minutes later, I said, “Doctor, Doctor, how’s Barron doing?” He’s our very tall son. Very tall. Has anybody noticed he’s slightly tall? He’s 14 and I’m saying, “Hello, Barron.” Now he’s great, but he’s strong. But I said like 12 minutes later, Dr. Sean … Great doctor. We have great doctors. One thing, when you are president, you got a lot of doctors. Johns Hopkins, I want to thank them. Walter Reed Medical Center, incredible.
 (52:28)
I mean, Dr. Ronny is now a Congressman from Texas. How about that? Dr. Ronny, he was before Sean, and Sean is now, and Sean has been great. But Sean came up along with other doctors, that Barron had it. About 12 seconds later, I said, “How’s Barron doing?” “Oh, he’s okay. He shed it. It’s gone.” It was gone like in two minutes. I said, “Hey, how come that doesn’t happen with me?” But I wasn’t bad. It was like a day, but they gave me a drug, Moderna. Who the hell knows? This was a very … Moderna makes it. I’ll tell you makes really a great version, they say. Eli Lilly, right? Regeneron. And they gave it to me, and I woke up the next morning and I felt I could have taken the toughest, meanest person in this group. Regeneron.
 (53:17)
Now, I don’t know whether or not it worked. I like to think it had no impact. I made a statement. I said, “Well, I’m in no trouble, because I’m young and I’m in perfect physical shape. I’m a perfect physical specimen.” And CNN went crazy. “He’s not young and he’s not in perfect …” They can’t take a joke. No, but I was better. I was better quickly. I was better very quickly. We reduced the fatality rate 85%, and now we have the lowest infection fatality rate anywhere in the world by far thanks to our unrelenting efforts. And by the way, remdesivir was also approved. It’s supposed to have a great effect. I mean, I said, “Give me whatever the hell you have. Just give it to me.” I wasn’t choosy. You know, the First Lady, “I don’t want anything. I don’t want …” She’s very particular, right? If I say, “Take an aspirin. You’ll feel better.” “No, no. I don’t want an aspirin.” Right? She doesn’t want that.
 (54:21)
Only 3% of hospitalizations are right now China virus. So think of that. So our hospitals are ready if something should happen, but that’s what … I appreciate that. He said, “We trust you.” You can. We are doing the greatest job of this, except with one thing, publicity. Our public relations, we’re spending too much time working and not enough time talking, but no matter what you say to these people, it won’t make any difference. And because of the advances in treatment we pioneered, the survival rate is far over 99% for many groups. It’s 99.9% And for under 70, it’s unbelievably high. For over 70, now it’s getting very good.
 (55:11)
And the drug they gave me, what we’re doing is we’re going to make that available, including the very similar drug, it’s antibody, a very similar drug from Eli Lilly. We’re going to make that available to anybody that needs it should they get the China virus. We’re going to make it available free. So if anybody is going to need it, if anybody’s going to need it.
 (55:39)
Joe Biden’s plan will delay the vaccine, postpone therapies, prolong the pandemic, crush our economy. Crush our economy. We can’t do this. Destroy the Florida tourism industry, and lock down our entire country. We’ll be locked down. Under Biden’s lockdown, countless Americans will die from suicide, drug overdoses, deferred medical care, abuse. The thing that’s happening to families is … The cure, remember, I said it right in the video, the cure can not be worse than the problem itself.
 (56:16)
And you have Michigan locked down. You have all Democrat governors. You know what’s going to happen? On November 4, the day after the election, they’re going to open it up. They’re doing it for political reasons, because it’s so bad for their state, and they think our numbers are going to look a little worse. California’s pretty much locked down. New York’s got to open. New York is becoming a very unsafe ghost town. Governor, open up the state, governor. Open up the state. You’ll see our governor, he’s going to make a few words in a couple of minutes. Governor from New York is going to be with us in a little while. Are you surprised to see that? You’ll see what I mean. There will be no school, no graduations, no weddings, no Thanksgivings, no Christmases, no 4th of Julys. There will be nothing. They will allow you nothing. Other than that, he’s doing a wonderful job.
 (57:08)
Europe imposed crushing lockdowns, and today Spain is more than two times more new cases per capita than the United States. France has over three times, and Belgium has over seven times what we have. And I don’t want that. I don’t want that. I don’t want that to happen to them. We’re helping them. We’re sending them thousands and thousands of ventilators. We’ve become the ventilator king. We’re making thousands of ventilators a month. We’re sending them to Europe and all over the world, sending a lot to Africa. They’ll never be able to get them. They’ll never be able to make them. We’ve done an incredible job. Incredible job.
 (57:45)
European lockdowns are not stopping the virus, but they’re creating misery, poverty, suffering, and death. You see the riots in the street of Italy today, in the streets of Italy? And the riots they’re having in France. The people are tired. They can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it anymore. They’re losing their businesses. They’re losing their jobs. They go back and the business is closed for nine months. We can’t do it anymore. They can’t do it. We know the disease. We social distance. We do all of the things that you have to do. If you get close, wear a mask. Always controversial. It’s not controversial to me. You get close, you wear a mask. Social distance. Social distance. You know the bottom line, though? You’re going to get better. You’re going to get better. If I can get better, anybody can get better. And I got better fast. They were so happy. They couldn’t believe it. That was probably the happiest day that they’ve had in years.
 (58:43)
And then I came out of the hospital to wave to the people, the supporters. I heard … These really beautiful rooms. Walter Reed is incredible. The best. The best. And rooms, the glass, heavy glass panels over the windows. And through all of that heavy glass, brick and mortar, I could hear people screaming outside a half a mile away. And they were fans of mine with flags, Trump flags. “We love our president.” And they were there for two days. They stayed there all night. I mean, these people were incredible. And I said to my incredible Secret Service people, there’s one of them, Bobby. I know I’m not supposed to say it. Bobby, I love you, Bobby. I said, “Bobby, I want to go over and see them.” “No problem, sir.” He ripped on that mask. He wouldn’t even think about that. I said, “Let’s go over and see them, Bobby.” By that time I was in good shape. I wanted to get out here with you.
 (59:39)
But we drove in front of those people, and we waved, and the people were so happy. It was incredible. It was. It was a love fest. They were so happy. And I got back and they were saying, “What a terrible thing to do.” No. We got to take care of our people, right? We got to stay with our people, including Secret Service, who does an incredible job. Thank you. Thank you, Bobby. The man. The man. Thank you, Bobby. Thank you, Secret Service. They do a great job.
 (01:00:14)
For half a century, Joe Biden has been outsourcing your jobs, opening your borders, and sacrificing American blood and treasure in endless foreign wars. In 2016, Florida voted to fire the depraved political establishment, and you elected an outsider as your president, who is finally, if you don’t mind, putting America first. That’s what we’re doing.
 (01:00:43)
Joe Biden is a corrupt politician that the fake news will not write about. They won’t write the story. They won’t write it, and big tech won’t write it. They won’t write the story. There’s the outside of the New York Post, who just endorsed me by the way, thank you very much, so fourth largest paper in the country. Got a lot of great endorsements. We got a lot of great … Jack Nicklaus. You know Jack? But he can do [inaudible 01:01:11] Jack. 78 tournaments he won, and he won 18 majors. Think of that, how great that is. That means under pressure … You need people like that, right? People that can win under pressure. Jack. But Jack gave me a beautiful endorsement. We got endorsements from a lot of newspapers all over. We got a lot of endorsements. If Biden wins, thank you very much. If Biden wins, China wins. When we win, Florida wins and America wins. It’s very simple.
 (01:01:41)
And if I don’t sound like a typical Washington politician, it’s because I’m not a politician. And I don’t always play by the rules of Washington and the Washington establishment. It’s because I was elected to fight for you, and I have fought for you harder than any president has ever fought for the people they love. Never.
 (01:02:33)
Thank you very much. There’s a lot of people … Look where that crowd is. Would you like to change places with some people in the back? I don’t think so. Thank you. Thank you. That’s incredible. What a crowd. But they’re all like this. I tell you, no matter where you go, 35,000, 45,000. They never mention it. They never mention. But with Biden, they never mention it either. I said, “Show the crowd.” You know what? They have circles. Someday, I’m going to hire the guy that does those circles. No, because it’s really good. Big, thick, nice circles. They’re perfectly done. It’s the best part of his campaign, the circles. And usually he’s got five of them. Usually he can’t fill them up with people, so he puts the fake news in the circles.
 (01:03:16)
And then they don’t ask him questions. Or how about the question they asked him the other day? He’s walking out with ice cream. “Sir, what flavor ice cream is it?” “I don’t know. It’s vanilla, I think.” Then they asked him a real question, he ran into the car, went back to the basement. Does he have the lid on again today? Almost every day. How do you put the lid? You know, when you do the lid, he did it like five, six days recently, that’s like 50% of the campaign. Now they try and say it’s because of COVID. They say the fact that he has nobody at all show up is because of COVID. No, it’s because nobody shows up.
 (01:03:54)
And I think that’s the ultimate poll, and based on the numbers that we’re getting, we’re going to do really well on Tuesday. We’ll see. Who knows? It’s an election. And if we do win, you’re going to see a stock market that goes through the roof. Your 401ks are going to go up by 50% quickly. You watch. I’m telling you. We know. I know all those guys. They’re just petrified at the thought of having massive tax increases, regulation increases. They said, “We’ve been through that. It wasn’t good.” That’s why they had no growth. That’s why they had no recovery. Slowest ever. Remember I said that. Slowest since 1929. That’s a long time.
 (01:04:35)
Not only is Joe Biden corrupt, he’s unfit. He has no plan to end the epidemic. It’s all talk, no action, like I said at the debate. 91% to 9%. You know what that means? They did polls afterwards. 91%. A respected poll, 91% said … I have to do it. I have to brag. You know why? They’ll never do it. Do you know the expression? If you can’t get anybody else to do it, do it yourself. No. 91% to 9%. I’m trying to figure out who was the nine. I want to find who these people were. No, it was just a ridiculous. Ridiculous. I think they could have done better, but you know, you never know. Again, this is why. You never know.
 (01:05:18)
His policies would create a depression, and he wants you to surrender our country. That’s what he wants to do. He wants you to surrender our country to China, to all of these other countries that have taken total advantage of us. It’s really the reason I’m here. If it weren’t for the horrible trade deals with South Korea, with our allies, you know, our allies in many ways treat us worse than the enemy. The enemy, at least we have our guard up. Our allies, what they’ve done to us in terms of military protection and trade is disgraceful.
 (01:05:51)
And when they come out and they say they like Barack Hussein Obama much more than they like Trump, that means I’m doing my job. You see, Germany said it the other day, and I have roots in Germany. But Germany said it the other day, they like Barack Hussein Obama. And they should, because Germany is delinquent in their NATO payments. Very delinquent. They’re at a half a level, and they’re very rich. They can do whatever they want. It’s not like they don’t have the money. And I call them out. I say, “If you don’t pay, we’re going to start taking our troops out.” And these people go crazy. They go crazy. You watch. Oh, we’ve already started to do it. They’ll pay.
 (01:06:34)
But I just want to play you a video from a … I was so impressed. It’s a little bit … We only do this for people that we love. We have these very expensive boards that come along, and this is largely a woman that comes from this area. Her husband happens to be a Major League Baseball player. Do you know who I’m talking about? He’s a handsome guy, but she’s far more beautiful, and he’s on Tampa Bay, so he’s right now a little depressed. I don’t know if he’s here or not, but if he is, I want to talk to him and say you did a great job. Kayleigh, please come up here, Kayleigh, and play the video, please. Play the video.

